WIP: Document how Packit team kanbanz (#531)
packit/agile: docs/board.md

# Packit Kanban Board

The current board is publicly available at https://github.com/orgs/packit/projects/7.

## Card states (=board columns)

### new

This is a column where all the new cards are added (automatically for public repositories, via GitHub action for private ones). At the beginning of each [Standup meeting](./meetings#Standup), a [triaging](#Triage) of new unassigned cards is happening resulting in either moving the card away or assigning a team member to further investigate and finish the triaging. Also, a card can be returned to the `new` column if we realise the card is not clear or needs attention (e.g. to check for relevancy). This can happen when going through the old cards during [Standup](./meetings#Standup).

### backlog

> This is a pile of cards that have been basically categorized but are not a current priority (present in the `priority-backlog`). The order of this column is not maintained.

Author: I thought we agreed on <=3 months in the priority, or?..;)

### priority-backlog

This is an ordered list of categorized cards that the team is considering for the next work. The priority is based on impact, user value, urgency and the current team plans and capacity. The team is revisiting the epic-level priorities on a quarterly level and the cards in the `priority-backlog` should be done in 3 months. This means the number of cards needs to be maintained below ~50.

### refined

This column consists of cards prepared to be worked on next when someone has a free capacity. The tasks should be actionable right away and doable by anyone. To get a card to this state a [refining process](#Refine) is used.

### in-progress

When a card is taken by someone from a `refined` column, it is assigned to that person and moved to this column. This is the list of cards that are being actively worked on.

### in-review

These tasks are nearly finished, being reviewed and polished.

> ### done

Author: ```suggestion
### `done`
```

  - A user might stop using Packit when not available.
- `gain/low`: change not so important to start/stop using Packit, e.g.:
  - If `workaround-exists` (separate label).
  - User can fully benefit from Packit without the card being done.

### Impact

These labels determine the size of a user group affected by this card combined with a frequency. To make this comparable, it is based on generic user roles like `upstream-developer` or `fedora-maintainer`. This means we won't mark a card as high-impactful when all (but a few in reality) users of a rear functionality are affected.

This needs to be combined with frequency -- this means how often they can benefit from a new feature or how often an issue is hit.

- `impact/high`: Many users are affected by this card and the occurrence is significant.
- `impact/low`: The card affects only a few users and/or rarely-used features. The issues are not hit often.

### `blocked`

This label is used to show that we can't move this card/work forward because of an external reason. For a reason, this is not a board state since the card can be blocked on various states of the development.

> ### `resource-reduction`

Author: Someone mentioned this aspect so I created it. But it's not much of a use I am worried.

This label marks tasks that can lead to better resource utilisation. (Without significant functional loss, fewer resources can be spent.)

### `discuss`

This label helps us gather cards to be discussed in weekly architecture meetings.

### Action items / for discussion (Section to be removed before merging.)

#### To remove:

- `needs-info` (`new` state)
- `needs-design` (not used)
- `pinned`
- `triaged`
- `invalid`
- `RHOSC`, `GSOC`

> - Is `has-release-notes` still relevant?

Reviewer: no, it's not, it was superseded by just the presence of the release notes in the PR description trailer

> - Do `wontfix` and `invalid` labels provide any value when the issue is closed and marked as not planned with a comment?

Author: So, if we agree to use it, can we get rid of those labels?

I can also try to check the already closed ones and fix if needed.

#### Edits

- Rename `area/refactor` to `area/technical-dept`.
- Rename `testing` to `area/testing`

#### Questions

> - Do we need complexity?

Reviewer: > We could probably just do with single / epic.

+1

> - Do we need complexity?

Author: And isn't the absence/presence of `epic` enough? But I am not against being explicit.

> - Do we need complexity?

Author: > ps: what happened to my Friday label? 👀 /s

I am 100% for preserving it if we continue on this habit or use it anyhow. We used to ignore these by stale-bot which was a bit confusing but nowadays, I don't see it being treated differently to good-first-issues/simple-fix ones.

- Do we need `kind/documentation`? (We have a separate project for doc-only cards and don't mention this explicitly on other cards.)

## Grooming process cheat sheet:

## Triage

(=process new cards and make basic categorization)

1. Triaging
   1. **_Is the card not valid or out of our scope?_** => Politely provide reasoning and close the issue as not planned.
   2. **_Do we have a related card for this?_** => Link the relevant cards, and add to an epic if applicable. Link and close in favour of a duplicate issue if applicable.
   3. **_Do we need to get more information from the requester? Is it necessary for a team-member to take a look?_** => Assign a person to continue with the discussion and leave it in the `new` column.
   4. **_Is the task actionable and we are in general sure what the card is about and which way the solution be chosen?_** => Enhance the title and description if needed and move outside of the `new` column.
   5. **_Does the issue come from an external person and there is a chance of contributing this?_** => Politely ask if the requester won't be able to contribute this with our help.
2. Labelling

>    1. **_Can we get a new user or allow a new user to start using a feature? Can this determine for the user if Packit will be used in the future?_** => Add `gain/high` label.

Author: Hmm, what I was trying to say?.. :thinking: 

I can see multiple options:
* We get a new user.
* An existing user starts using a job/functionality/... (e.g. User uses release syncing but can't use Koji builds. We add a new config option so the user can start using Koji Builds.)

Probably something like this?

```suggestion
   1. **_Can we get a new Packit user or allow an already onboarded user to start using another Packit's functionality? Can this influence the decision of a user whether Packit will be integrated in the future?_** => Add `gain/high` label.
```

      **_Is there a workaround or the feature is not significant to the user?_** => use `gain/low`.
   2. **_Is this affecting many users from a role group (e.g. Fedora maintainers, Upstream developers,...)? Can this bring a significant number of new users?_** => Add `impact/high`, add `impact/low` otherwise.

>    3. Add a `demo` label for tasks that are worth presenting to the team or users.

Author: Exactly! I am glad my archaeology :bone:  provides benefits..;)

   4. Add `area/*`, `kind/*` and other suitable labels if needed.
   5. Add a deadline if applicable.
3. Prioritising
   1. **_Is there a strict deadline? Did we break anything crucial? Are we significantly blocking users?_** => [Refine the card](#Refine) right away and move to the `refined` column.
   2. **_Is there a `gain/high` and `impact/high` label? Do we need/want to finish this within ~3 months? Is this part of our current high-level plans for the quarter?_** => Move to the `priority-backlog` column.

>    3. **_Is there a workaround? Doesn't the task make a user start/stop using Packit? Or, otherwise. _** => move to the `backlog` column.

Author: I should have used pseudo code / Python instead..;)

```python
if workaround_exists or not makes_user_stop_using_packit_if_not_implemented or not makes_user_start_using_packit_if_implemented or not_matching_other_states:
  return backlog
```

> ## Refine

Reviewer: this could be linked from the `meetings.md` (from the `Refinement` meeting section) to avoid duplication
